---
layout: page 
title: Research and projects 
---

**[Fiscal Consequences of
Terrorism](https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2015/wp15225.pdf)**,
with Serhan Cevik

This paper provides an empirical analysis of how the frequency and
severity of terrorism affect government revenue and expenditure during
the period 1970â€“2013 using a panel dataset on 153 countries. We find
that terrorism has only a marginal negative effect on tax revenue
performance, after controlling for economic and institutional factors.
This effect is also not robust to alternative specifications and
empirical strategies. On the other hand, we find strong evidence that
terrorism is associated with an increase in military spending as a
percent of GDP (and a share of total government expenditure). Our
estimations reveal that this impact is greater when terrorist attacks
are frequent and result in a large number of fatalities. Empirical
findings also support the view that public finances in developing and
low-income countries are more vulnerable to terrorism than those in
countries that are richer and diversified.


**[Walk sheds by Metro
line](https://johnricco.shinyapps.io/metro_walksheds/)**, with [Steve
Bronder](http://www.stevebronder.com/read-me/)

An interactive data visualization of the DC Metro and how its stations
are accessible by foot. It was featured at [Greater Greater
Washington](http://greatergreaterwashington.org/post/26524/walkability-
by-metro-line-graphed/), and I demoed the tool at [Metro Hack
Night](https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/trafficandcommuting/transportation-techies-find-new-ways-to-make-metro-driving-easier/2015/10/24/07841846-67ae-11e5-8325-a42b5a459b1e_story.html). 